---
slug: a-summary-of-new-zealand-pt-2
title: 'A Summary of New Zealand, Pt 2'
date: '2007-10-23 03:56:25'
tags:
- travel
- blog
---

We left Taupo on day 6, again without skydiving thanks to the rain, and headed to River Valley.  We stayed in a tiny little lodge miles from anything, where the dorms where made up of one giant bunk bed which slept 8 above and 8 below.  We killed an evening there drinking and playing chess and cards, and awoke in the morning on day 7 hoping to go rafting, but surprise surprise, the rain stopped play again and we spent the whole morning playing more cards.  The game of choice was [knockout whist](http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Knock-out_Whist).  We rolled on to Wellington disappointed.

Wellington is a really industrial looking city: tram wires criss-cross the streets and metal statues tower over pedestrian crossings.  Tonight was toga party night and I only had an hour or so to check out the city before attempting to tie a toga for the first time ever, so I ran into town, picked up a copy of Harry Potter and the Philosopher's Stone (I need some light reading after the first 3 Dune books ruined my brain) and a new diary, and then headed back to shower and sort my life out.  Tying togas turned out to be easier than I thought for guys, and much harder than I ever imagined for girls, and so the start of my evening was spent trying (and failing) to help out my roommates.  We hit the bar fashionably late and Johan, an awesome Swedish guy, threw a whisky into my hand.  It all went downhill from there.  I hate describing nights out so let's cut to the exciting bit: I got home to find blood all over my flipflops and a big chunk of glass sticking straight through into my foot.  It's not a good night out if no-one's bleeding at the end of it, that's what I always say.

Day 8 saw us crawling, hungover and battered, onto a 3 hour ferry to reach the South island.  The next few days got a little dull: the rain fell harder than ever before.  Nelson, our first stop, needed a few days to do properly and I didn't have that kind of time so I missed out on a lot, but some guys from the bus and I did go hunting for the goldsmith that made the One Ring and saw one of the prototypes made for it, as well as one of the 6 inch versions used for some of the close-up scenes.  Day 9 was Westport, which I barely even remember and I have written nothing about in my diary.  Day 10 was a place we know pretty much only as the Poo Pub, although I could look up its real name if I had the patience.  This stop was a little weird: it was a tiny little pub, run by an 80 year old guy who only caters for the Kiwi Experience bus.  Every single bus that passes through has a fancy dress party there and gets a group photo put up on the walls.  The place is covered from floor to ceiling in polaroids and has now moved on to 4 photo books, all out on display.  Our theme was pirates and everyone made a pretty decent effort.  We all got ruined and spent too much money.

Day 11 was the drive to Franz Josef, the famous glacier, where I decided to have a night off from drinking (I had spent all my budget for New Zealand long before this so I was trying to save some money) and had a quiet one in the lovely log cabin-style bar.  Naturally, it was raining here, but I felt a little better in the knowledge that we were, in fact, in a rainforest.  The next day we headed up the glacier in yet more rain, which was an awesome experience, but I enjoyed the hot tub afterwards a great deal more.

Day 12 was our journey to Wanaka, a lovely little town surrounded by mountains that we couldn't see thanks to the fog and rain.  The next morning, however, was our trip to Queenstown, and we were greeted with glorious sunshine.  As everyone threw their bags on the bus they ran down to the shore of the lake to grab some photos and take in the views, all just glad to finally see some sunshine and the tops of some mountains.

And then, friends, we hit Queenstown.  Oh my, Queenstown rocks.  Adrenaline capital of the world, home of the 2nd biggest bungy jump and just about every ridiculous sport you can think of, a tiny little ski resort styled town that packs a whole lot of partying and thrill-seeking into every single building.  The scenery is just astounding, I don't think I've ever seen anything so amazing.  It kind of helps that this is the first good weather we've seen in ages, though, I guess.

So far in Queenstown I've done the [Shotover Canyon Swing](http://www.canyonswing.co.nz/index.php), where I did a [pindrop](http://www.canyonswing.co.nz/jumpstyles.php) jump (click on the link then click "pin drop" to see what I mean), and [I've done](http://farm3.static.flickr.com/2292/1664103383_8b0dda6d72.jpg) the [Nevis Highwire](http://www.bungy.co.nz/index.php/pi_pageid/29), highest bungy in New Zealand and second highest in the world.  Both were terrifying, the Nevis is easily the scariest thing I've ever done.  There's some [vids on Youtube](http://youtube.com/results?search_query=nevis+highwire&search=Search) if you want to see it in motion.  Aside from that, I've mainly been partying and reading Harry Potter, and I'm almost ashamed at how much I'm enjoying it.  It's been a long time since I read a kid's book (Yes, it is a kids book, shut up shut up) and it makes me ever so happy.  Queenstown feels like it should be home to me: I want to work here, and live here, and eat Fergburgers all the time (I wish I could explain Fergbuger to you but I just can't: it's the best burger joint I've ever been in, and I spent 3 months in the US).  I want to be here when it snows and go boarding every day.

Tomorrow I leave for Christchurch, where I have one day before I move on to Australia.  I can't wait to settle down and be in one city for more than a week: I love traveling, but it'll be nice to know where the nearest supermarket is for once.
