---
slug: islands
title: 'Islands'
date: '2008-06-17 07:42:52'
tags:
- travel
- blog
---

Just a quick update for you so you don't all think I'm dead.

I'm out on Ko Pha-Ngan right now, which is basically where the party happens.  All the time.  It's pretty crazy and I can't seem to escape a hangover: there's really not much to do here apart from drink lots and sleep.  I suppose there's diving and stuff too but for a poor traveler like myself it's not financially viable.

Ko Samui was beautiful.  It's low season right now, so the place was empty and I could get on with some serious sleeping on the beach without too much hassle.  Pha-Ngan is basically the opposite - most resorts are full and the whole place is busy, especially now because it's the run-up to the full moon party.  After tomorrow I'm sure it'll thin out a bit, it sounds like there's a mass exodus from the island on the morning after.  Christ only knows why: I'm not getting on any boats the day after that party, I can tell you that right now.

My friend Helen goes home in 5 days, which is a bit weird because she's one of these people who I can't imagine ever not traveling: she's done 19 countries or so in her year, and I've done, what, 6 now?  She's awesome and you should read her [travel blog](http://wordlywonders.blogspot.com/) because she can do the writing and it is the good.

I've put a few more photos up for your viewing pleasure.  Sorry I haven't rotated them all up the right way but it's a total pain to do that on Flickr.

I've spent far too long in this net cafe.  I'm going to go outside and do something else for a while.  See you later.  11 days to go!
