---
slug: full-moon
title: 'Full moon'
date: '2008-06-25 05:19:24'
tags:
- travel
- blog
---

Ko Pha-Ngan is something amazing.

I'm not quite sure if you can call it beautiful.  Bits of it certainly are, but the onslaught of the tourist has ruined it somewhat.  Somehow it has resisted the urge to become westernised though: no MacDonalds, no Burger King, no Starbucks.  I'm sure it's only a matter of time before it all goes wrong.  Instead you have rows and rows of restaurants with Family Guy on repeat and bars lining the beach serving up absolutely lethal buckets of alcohol and red bull to the up-for-it party goers of the night.  The beach itself is pretty amazing, discarded bottles and buckets aside: it's a crescent shape with gorgeous soft sand and jungle on either side.  The sun rises over it so at 7am the remaining dancers are treated to quite a view.

The full moon party itself was just unreal.  It almost ended before it began for me: while I was drinking with the guys from my resort, I suddenly found myself doubled up in pain from a stomach ache.  I had to go and lie down, and I heard them all walk past my bungalow on the way to the beach as I lay in the dark.  I decided to risk some painkillers - not always a good idea on a bad stomach - but they worked out ok, and I headed out at midnight.  Having no mates, I went over to the fire dancers and span poi with them for a while.  The Thai guys were awesome, really friendly and true performers.  I met a whole bunch of fire spinners from all over the world there and I didn't leave until we ran out of fuel.

It was about 4am at that point, so I decided it was time to get drunk and have a dance.  I grabbed a bucket and headed over to Tommy's Resort, which was sporting a huge psytrance stage complete with pretty visuals and a podium.  I was in my element there and made friends with everyone on the dance floor, where I stayed until 8am.  The sunrise was perfect, but as it washed everyone with colour again it became clear just how much of a party it had been.  Suddenly the beach was full of rubbish and passed out ravers.  I looked down and noticed that I was covered in soot from head to toe.  I actually had to throw away the clothes I was wearing that night!  Somehow, and I have no idea how, I found the guys I'd started the night with at this point.  We had a beer and then I went to bed.

After the full moon, Ko Pha-Ngan seemed to be stuck in a constant hangover.  Most of the people left for other islands, leaving the whole place a little empty and lacking in energy.  I don't think I could have coped with much more, anyway.  I left for Samui and spent a few sleepy days wasting time in the sun.

Today I'm flying back to Bangkok to have a swift 2 day shopping binge before I get on that big old flight back home.  This will be my last blog entry before England, I guess.  That's a bit of a weird feeling.  I never really thought I'd make it this far.  I'm glad I did, though.
