---
slug: bangkok
title: 'Bangkok'
date: '2008-06-10 10:03:15'
tags:
- travel
- blog
---

I found myself in much better spirits by the time I got to Sydney airport.  When I said goodbye to all my friends, something clicked and I got all excited about traveling again.  My flight and the day surrounding it was mercifully uneventful and I met a couple of travelers at the airport who pointed me at a good place to stay, so I got myself settled into the country really easily, even if I was confused by the time difference, not sure that my watch was right, and running on 2 hours of awkward plane sleep.

The guest houses here are awesome.  Roughly 5 quid, often even less, gets you aircon, a double bed, ensuite, and a TV.  Beats paying 12 or more in America and Australia for a 16 bed dorm, that's for sure. I have spent a lot of time lazing around in my room instead of being adventurous because I haven't had a good laze about for a long time.  So what if I'm supposed to be traveling, I'm tired!

I have managed to get out and about a bit though.  Khao San Road is one of the world's biggest backpacker meccas and it's pretty unreal to visit: food and beer everywhere for crazy cheap prices (Roughly 1 pound a meal, 1 pound a beer), loads of bizarre steet vendors, and naturally, hundreds of bemused tourists trying to avoid getting ripped off and trying to ignore all the people trying to sell you suits.  At night the place becomes a weird backpacker party that's something a bit like but not really even close to Fresher's week and a festival rolled into one.

I did a bit of culture as well and went out to see a couple of temples, and the grand palace: absolutely amazing stuff.  So much gold and such unbelievable statues.  I took lots of touristy photos so you can check them out as usual.  Yes, that Buddha really is huge.  He's 45m tall.

I'm off to Ko Samui tomorrow to get a tan so that I look like I've been traveling.  Then I'm going on to the full moon party to jump about to some techno, then I'm going to find a nice beach and sleep for a week before I get back home and the job-seeking madness has to begin again.

How do I feel about going home?  Good question.  I never thought I'd actually make it this far, I guess, so it's only recently that I've really given it any serious thought, and I reckon I could write a good few pages on the issue.  I'll spare you for now, but suffice to say, I can't wait to be back in England to see everyone again and pick up my life where I left off.  Should be good, I reckon.
